Fix: #1542. Add Content-Digest. (#1543)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers.md

## Concept Overview

This document defines the `Digest` request and response header and trailer
field, see {{digest}}. At a high level the value contains a checksum, computed
over `selected representation data` (Section 3.2;
{{!SEMANTICS=I-D.ietf-httpbis-semantics}}), that the recipient can use to
validate integrity. Basing `Digest` on the selected representation makes it
straightforward to apply it to use-cases where the transferred data requires

> some sort of manipulation to be considered a representation, or conveys a
> partial representation of a resource, for example Range Requests (see Section
> 14.2 of {{SEMANTICS}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some sort of manipulation to be considered a representation or conveys a
partial representation of a resource, such as Range Requests (see Section
14.2 of {{SEMANTICS}}).
```
There are only two items here, so you don't need a comma before "or"; "for example" would need a comma after it as well, and that would be a lot of commas.

> To support use cases where a simple checksum of the content bytes is required,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support use-cases where a simple checksum of the content bytes is required,
```

> this document introduces the `Content-Digest` request and response field, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this document introduces the `Content-Digest` request and response field; see
```

Want-Digest: sha-512;q=0.3, sha-256;q=1, unixsum;q=0
~~~

> # The Content-Digest Field {#content-digest}

Reviewer 2: So, strictly speaking, this field name is appropriate according to the current terminology in Semantics. 

What triggered my unease was that the `Content-` prefix is used on several headers that _don't_ refer to the actual content of the message (using the current Semantics definition) -- they refer to the _representation_. See <https://github.com/httpwg/http-core/issues/878>.

I think it's safe to ship this as `Content-Digest` as long as it's being super-precise about what it's referring to.

I could also see flipping `Content-Digest`'s semantics with `Digest`, to align with most (but not all) other uses of the `Content-` prefix. I'm not convinced that doing so is necessary, or even preferable; just mentioning it as something to consider.

Author: Good insight Mark, we'll provide an example of Content-Digest vs Digest in the same message.

About flipping, I think that Content-Digest, being similar to Content-md5 seems to me a more intuitive name.

Reviewer 3: Flipping names seems bad to me. Prefer the way we suggested

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't flipping the names be problematic with respect to compatiblity with existing implementations of RFC3230's Digest?

> The `Content-Digest` field contains a comma-separated list of one or more content digest

Reviewer 5: Since we're defining a new header here, can we just use structured fields for it entirely? So it'd be a dictionary with the field names as algorithms and the values as binaries.

Reviewer 3: Excellent question. I like the idea but think that it would make it awkward because the algorithms define their encoding. So you'd have to carve out some exceptions and differences, which might catch implementers out.

Author: I wanted to switch to SF, but after a long discussion it was suggested to retain the current grammar,
even because SF do not support uppercase dictionary keys: this is a show stopper wrt being backward compatible.

Moreover  I don't agree wrt using different parsers  for `C-D` and  `D`: it is valuable that the same parser can process both fields.

values.

> A content digest value is computed applying a digest-algorithm to the actual message content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A content digest value is computed by applying a digest-algorithm to the actual message content
```

Want-Digest: sha-512;q=0.3, sha-256;q=1, unixsum;q=0
~~~

# The Content-Digest Field {#content-digest}

The `Content-Digest` field contains a comma-separated list of one or more content digest
values.
A content digest value is computed by applying a digest-algorithm to the actual message content
(see Section 6.4 of {{SEMANTICS}}).
It can be used in both requests and responses.

~~~ abnf
   Content-Digest = 1#content-digest
   content-digest = digest-algorithm "="
                    <encoded digest output>
~~~

For example:

~~~ http-message
Content-Digest: id-sha-512=WZDPaVn/7XgHaAy8pmojAkGWoRx2UFChF41A2svX+TaPm
                           AbwAgBWnrIiYllu7BNNyealdVLvRwE\nmTHWXvJwew==
~~~

A `Content-Digest` field MAY contain multiple content-digest values,
similarly to `Digest` (see {{digest}})

~~~ http-message
Content-Digest: sha-256=4REjxQ4yrqUVicfSKYNO/cF9zNj5ANbzgDZt3/h3Qxo=,
                id-sha-256=X48E9qOokqqrvdts8nOJRJN3OWDUoyWxBf7kbu9DBPE=
~~~

A recipient MAY ignore any or all of the content-digests in a Content-Digest
field. This allows the recipient to choose which digest-algorithm(s) to use for

> validation instead of verifying every received representation-data-digest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
validation instead of verifying every received content-digest.
```

A sender MAY send a content-digest using a digest-algorithm without
knowing whether the recipient supports the digest-algorithm, or even knowing
that the recipient will ignore it.

`Content-Digest` can be sent in a trailer section.
In this case,
`Content-Digest` MAY be merged in to the header section (See Section 6.5.1 of {{SEMANTICS}}).

When an incremental digest-algorithm
is used, the sender and the receiver can dynamically compute the digest value
while streaming the content.

# The Want-Content-Digest Field {#want-content-digest}

The `Want-Content-Digest` field indicates the sender's desire to receive a content
digest on messages associated with the request URI and representation metadata.
It can be used in both requests and responses.

~~~

>    Want-Content-Digest = 1#want-digest-value

Reviewer 3: Given how similar Want-Digest and Want-Content-Digest are, and that they share the `want-digest-value` we can probably editorialize this a bit. But in order not to block this PR, we can do that work in a follow up.

Author: filed https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/issues/1632

Specification document(s):  {{digest}} of this document

## Want-Content-Digest Field Registration

> This section registers the `Want-Digest` field in the "Hypertext Transfer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section registers the `Want-Content-Digest` field in the "Hypertext Transfer
```
